{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2636
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 For this tutorial we are going to create a google analytics universal and measurement tracking ID\'92S. \
Then we will use the universal Id for the website. \
\
\
1. Welcome to the google analytics home page.\
\
The site defaults to one of the website google analytics accounts that I created. \
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 An account generates the tracking id that you will insert into your code.\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
2. Create a google analytics accounts for your website.\
\
In this page we have three columns. \
\
In the first column. \
\
	When you open the drop down menu ( click on the green circle), you will see all the accounts that you \
currently have. \
\
	I currently have three accounts. \
\
	The first and third accounts are hidden (thick dark blue line). \
\
	The second account is shown. The name of this account is Interno. \
	\
	I previously created this account  for my react application interno.netlify.app. \
\
The second and third  columns.\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 	Here you will find more information about the Interno account and google analytics available features.\
\
\
Click on the create account blue button that\'92s in the first column. \
\
\
3. Declare account name. \
\
	In the account setup box, Insert your account name. \
\
	I usually use my websites name as the account name. \
\
	Click next.\
\
\
4. Set up the google analytics property. \
\
	In the property details set up box,  Insert the property name. \
\
	I usually use my websites name + data . Example: notesdata .\
\
	Click on show advanced options. \
\
\
5. Turn on the universal property.\
\
	In the advanced options, turn on the universal analytics property. \
\
	This provides the tracking id number that you will use later on.\
\
\
6.  Create the universal property. \
\
	After you turn on the universal analytics property, a box will appear beneath.\
\
	In this box, enter the url of your website. \
\
	Click next.\
\
\
7. Provide site details.  \
\
	Declare industry category.\
\
	Declare business size.\
\
	Declare how you want to use the data. \
\
\
8. Accept terms of agreement.\
\
9. Close the webs stream details \
\
	Google analytics has two types of ID\'92s for tracking websites and apps. \
\
	Universal ID (UA) : \'91Universal Analytics is the earlier version of Analytics and only supports web 	measurement\'92  \
\
	quote from: https://support.google.com/analytics/answer/10269537?hl=en\
\
	Measurement ID (GA4 - google analytics 4): This is a new version of google analytics.\
\
		Here is a link for info on what each type of id is used for: https://support.google.com/analytics/answer/7372977?hl=en#:~:text=If%20you're%20working%20with,your%20Google%20Analytics%204%20property.\
\
	In the web stream details, the measurement ID is provided, but we are not going to be using this. \
\
	Instead, for this project, we are using the Tracking ID. \
\
	So close the pop up by clicking on the red circle.\
 \
\
10. Find the universal Id - There are many ways to do this. This is just one way !\
\
	After closing the data stream, click on the settings icon at the bottom left.\
\
	In the admin pane, click on user.\
\
	In the Edit User Settings page, scroll down to monthly Snapshot and copy the UA tracking Id.\
\
\
\
}