{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2636
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww15800\viewh7940\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 What is git ?
\f1\b0 \
\
Git is a software program that stores and organizes your code. It also tracks all the changes that are made to your code. \
\
As a result, you are able to compare all the changes that you make to your code over time.\
\
Most of the actions that can be executed, only add to actions that have already happened. Its difficult to delete an action. \
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 The three forms that your files can be can reside in
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0  \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 Modified:
\f1\b0  this means that you have changed the file but have not committed it to your database yet. \
	\
	This is done when you edit and save a file.\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 Staged:
\f1\b0  this means that you have marked a modified file in its current version to go into your next commit. \
\
	This is done through the command \
\
	git add .\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \

\f0\b Committed:
\f1\b0  this means that the data is safely stored in your local database. \
\
	This is done through the command\
\
	 git commit -m \'93description of commit\'94\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\qc\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 The three sections of a git project. 
\f1\b0 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \

\f0\b The working tree\

\f1\b0 \
	- This is a single checkout of one version of your project.\
\
	- Files in the working tree are pulled out of the Git directory and placed on your computer for\
	you to use or modify.\
\
	- This is where your code gets stored when you save it without staging it. \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \

\f0\b The staging area
\f1\b0 \
\
	- This is a file, generally contained in your Git directory.\
\
	- This file stores information about what will go into your next commit. \
\
	- Its technical name in Git parlance is the \'93index\'94, but the phrase \'93staging area\'94 is often used.\
\
	- This is where your code get stored when you stage it, via the command git add .\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \

\f0\b The Git directory
\f1\b0 \
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 	- This is where your code gets stored when you commit it, via a commit message\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 	- If a particular version of a file is in the Git directory, it\'92s considered committed. \
\
	- This is what is copied when you clone a repository.\
\
	\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 How to identify where exactly a file is located:
\f1\b0 \
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 If a particular version of a file was changed, but has not been staged, then it is in the working tree.\
\
If a particular version of a file has been modified, and staged, then its in the staging area.\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
If a particular version of a file has been staged, and committed, then it\'92s in the Git directory. \
\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 What happens when you do an action on git ?\

\f1\b0 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Every time you save or commit the state of your project, git takes a picture of what all your files look like at that moment and stores a reference to that snapshot.\
\
If files have not changed, Git doesn\'92t store the file again.\
\
The entire history of the project is right there on your local disk (similar to browser history).\
You can\'92t lose information in transit or get file corruption without Git being able to detect it. \
\
When you do actions in Git, nearly all of them only add data to the Git database. \
It is hard to get the system to do anything that is not undoable or to make it erase data in any way.\
\
Source: https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-What-is-Git%3F\
}